# Electricity-Management-System

<h4>Electricity Management System(EMS) helps for preparation of electricity bill of the consumers. The main objective of this system is to avoid time taking maunal working process.
Our system contains both admin and user module.</h4>

<h3>Admin Rights:</h3>
1) Admin can login with username and password given by system.</br>
2) Admin can add new users.</br>
3) Admin can add bill. System generates unique bill number automatically.</br>
4) Admin can view all users of the system.</br>
6) Admin can view all bills of users that are paid or not.</br>
7) Admin can see the complaints raised by the users.</br>

<h3>User Rights:</h3>
1)User can login with user id and password. Here, user id is automatically generated by the system and password is given by password.</br>
2)User can see his/her dashboard.</br>
  In that user can see the logout option, userid, username and meter number.</br>
3)User can view bills.</br>
4)User can pay bill by bank ac number and ifsc code.</br>
5)User can see transaction made by her/his.</br>
6)User can raise complaints against service.</br>
7)User can change account password.</br>

<h2>Software Requirements:</h2>
1. XAMPP/MYSQL Server</br>
2. Netbeans 8.0.2</br>
3. JDK 8</br>

<h2>Steps to setup project:</h2>
1. Download code from github.</br>
2. Open netbeans-> Open file-> Import Project-> From Zip ->Select project zip file and import it.</br>
3. Open Xampp control panel.</br>
4. Start Apache and MYSQL server.</br>
5. Go to MySQL server admin.</br>
6. Create new database which name is 'ems'.</br>
7. Click on import and import SQL file.</br>
8. Go to netbeans and make connection and go to dbconnection.class file and make changes in path if required.</br>
9. Run project.</br>
10. All required .jar files are included in project.</br>

<h3>Admin Credentials:<h3/>
Username= Admin</br>
Password=admin</br>




